Hello and welcome.
This lecture I'd like to talk about dependency injection.
This goes hand in hand with the dependency inversion principle dependency inversion.
Remember has to do more with not doing that top down approach.
And also it's very closely related to programming through interfaces although it's a little more strict.
So let's talk about dependency injection first let's just talk about what dependencies are.
We should understand what dependencies are through our common term coupling because coupling has to
do a lot with dependency.
Right.
But in order to understand dependency injection we have to understand what dependencies are may seem
intuitive but I just want to quickly cover it.
So Java classes and dependency and another class if it uses an instance of this class it's referred
to as a class dependency class which axis is a logger service that has a dependency on this service
class.
That would be an example right.
So if you had an instance of a logger service in your application that class that has an instance would
have that dependency Java classes should be as independent as possible from other Java classes.
That's what we strive for that's loose loose coupling it increases the possibility of reusing these
classes and to be able to test them independently from other classes.
Right.
We kind of notice the less dependencies the easier they are to maintain.
When you change something you don't have a ripple effect if a Java class creates an instance of another
class via the new operator.
It cannot be used and tested independently from this class and this is called a hard dependency dependency
injection.
Solve these hard dependencies.
So that's what we're trying to accomplish when we file the Dependency Injection principle we try to
solve these hard dependencies when we have a specific class has a dependency and another class by using
the new operator
so let's look at an example and tell a j of a class that has a hard dependency.
We'll be pretty straightforward.
So we're just going to create a quick project we'll just call test for now.
It's really not going to do much.
I just want to be able to write some code
what this class is gonna do it again it's just going to demonstrate what a hard dependency is.
It's gonna be a client class.
So we'll just start writing it.
So the name is client.
It's going to have an internal reference to some kind of service.
So we'll just say this is an internal reference
to the service used by this client.
So in turn a reference to the service used by this client.
So we're just gonna assume there's an example called example service a class called example service
and we'll name a service that's going to stay red because we don't have that class defined yet for we'll
have a client for a client
and this is the constructor.
This is going to specify a service specific implementation in the constructor instead of using any kind
of dependency injection.
So what we would do here is we would just instantiate the service.
OK.
And then we may have some methods in this class you know maybe something like that the client would
use maybe a mess maybe a method called GRI or something like that.
And so again it's a pretty simple class right.
It just has a has a relationship with this example service and it has a method called greed that uses
the example service.
Pretty straightforward that service member is contained inside the class.
And it's actually used in the method in instantiated in the client.
This is an example of a hard coded dependency.
The client has a hard dependency of the example service that makes sense.
So let's look at some of the problems with this hardcoded dependency.
First off you know it's a dependency that's typical in programming.
It's somewhat trivial.
However when the application code gets bigger and more complex the hard coded dependency among the classes
introduces many problems.
For one the code is very inflexible.
It's going to be hard to maintain and extend as when a class permanently depends on another class.
So the change to the dependent class may require a change to the dependent class.
So whenever you change example service you're going to probably have to change client.
So it's very inflexible code codes also harder to get on a unit test.
And we mentioned the importance of unit tests in previous lectures.
When you want to test only the functionality of a class you have to test the other dependent classes
as well.
So if I want to actually get the client under test and I want to test the treatment method I would also
have to have a dependency with the exam example service.
I would also have to try to get rid of that dependency.
You would probably mark it out.
The code is also hard to reuse because of the coupling the dependencies between the example service
and the client.
If we ever tried to use client Well we again we'd be reusing example service so the point here is dependency
injection can solve all of these drawbacks.
They can solve the inflexibility they can solve the fact that it's hard to get on a test and they can
solve the tightly coupled to make it more loosely coupled All right.
The code can be more flexible to changes easy for unit testing and reusable.
So let's go back to the slides and talk more about dependency injection this slide basically summarizes
what I just said in terms of the problems with the example and the hard dependency.
Now how can Dependency Injection What is it.
How can it solve this problem.
It's a technique whereby one of the objects supplies the dependencies of another object.
It enables do you replace dependencies without changing the class that uses them
dependency is an object that can be used usually will refer to that as a service.
The injection is the passing of the dependency to a dependent object dependent object is the client
the client uses the service.
It allows us to remove the hardcoded dependencies and make our application loosely coupled extendable
and maintainable like we mentioned the problems with the example.
It's one form of the broader technique of dependency inversion.
So as I mentioned it is related to dependency inversion the Dependency Injection supports the dependency
inversion principle.
What's gonna happen is the client is they're going to delegate the responsibility of providing its dependencies
to the external code the external code is referred to as the injector.
We just talked about the dependency and aversion present principle.
But again let's remind you of of what that is.
So that you can relate it to the dependency injection dependency inversion is where you can introduce
interfaces to break dependencies between higher and low lower level classes.
Right.
That after action technique both classes depend on the interface and they no longer depend on each other.
That's the central focus of the Dependency inversion principle.
You still have a dependency on the lower level class with the dependency inversion principle.
What happens is the interface is only going to decouple the usage of the lower level class but not necessarily
its instantiation so you still need instantiate the implementation of the interface.
So the goal of dependency injection is to remove that dependency by separating the usage from the creation
of the object.
It's all about getting rid of the creation of the object dependency because remember dependency inversion
still has that dependency.
It's just no longer with a low level high our class.
It's with that new instance.
So dependency injection is going to reduce the amount of the required boilerplate code and it will improve
in flexibility.
Let's talk about the four roles and dependency injection.
If you want to use dependency injection you need classes that fulfill four basic roles.
We mentioned the service the service you want to use the client that uses the dependency and interface
that is used by the client and implemented by the service would be the third role and the last role
is the injector the injector creates a service instance and injects it into the client.
So what you're doing here is somebody else is creating the instance and then they're passing it to the
client.
The injector creates it the dependency which is the service and then passes it to the client.
You already implement three of these four roles by following the dependency inversion principle the
service and the client are the two classes between which the dependency and Virgin principle intends
to remove the dependency by introducing an interface so that low level class a high level class that
service the client and then the actual interface removes that dependency that abstract class the injector
is the only role that is not required by the dependency inversion principle who creates the object and
then passes it through.
So the injector is really what you have to learn here in dependency injection that you haven't learned
in the dependency inversion.
Now we have to try to figure out what this injector is all about.
How can we use the injector to inject this new dependency while there's multiple ways you can do it.
There's at least three ways an object and receive a reference to an external object.
You can do it through a constructor injection where the dependencies are provided through the constructor
you basically just passed the reference to the constructor and the client cetera injection.
This is where the clients exposes setter method and you pass the dependency through the setter method
and then the interface injection is the dependency provides an injector method that will inject the
dependency into any client pass to it.
So a client will be passed to the method and then it would inject it that way.
Clients have to implement this interface that explosives the setter method that accepts the dependency.
Here is an example of constructor injection.
This method requires the client to provide a parameter in a constructor.
And so again the services the dependency the client's going to use that dependency.
All you do is the client constructor takes that service object and then you have a member variable that
saves it And gets assigned to it.
Setter injection where you have the set method inside the client pretty much very closely to the constructor
although you have a set method.
So set services this example again the service is passed and that way the reference and then you save
it to remember variable.
Those are very closely related the constructor and the setter injection the interface injection.
Remember that you have to actually implement something and you pass the the service through the set
service method.
So this is simply the client publishing a role interface to the setter methods of the client's dependencies.
This can be used to establish how the injector should talk to the client when injecting dependencies.
Here we have our interface called Service Center.
We have a set service method.
It takes our service which is our dependency.
We have a client class that implements the service center.
And then again you have your member variables for your service and your set service method implements
it the interface implements as a service and takes the service method has a reference and sets the member
variable you would then have your service class here on the right that maybe has an eject method that
takes the client has a parameter.
The client would then call it set service method through the interface and set the service or the dependency
that way.
At this point let's look at an example that uses these four rolls for dependency injection.
I'd like to create a new project and this is going to be our dependency injection example it's going
to use those for roles the client service the injector in the interface so Dependency Injection example
or we start by creating our interface public interface service.
And this is just gonna think contain a simple right method takes a string.
Now we're gonna create a service that implements the service.
So we'll say public class
service a implements service.
And this is gonna have our over and method to right.
Public void right.
It takes a message.
And this is just going to display some output
hello world for example
now we need our client will say and we're going to actually leave these class class client and we need
a instance of our dependency so we're gonna say private service my service and then we're gonna do injection
via the constructor.
So here we can say injects via the constructor in here we'll have our constructor.
It's pretty basic.
We're just gonna set that reference.
This stop my service equals service and that's an example of our constructor injection.
Now we might have another method inside here that does something.
Again not doing much but it's going to demonstrate that it will use that service that dependency.
So I might just say my service stopped right and then write some message.
You know this is a message.
Something like that.
And so there is an example of our constructor injection.
We no longer have the dependency on the my service class because the service is gonna get instantiated
elsewhere here.
We would actually create the injector maybe inside of a main method or another class.
Right.
So let's actually create that mean.
And so now we're we're going to actually do our instantiation is a dependency outside of the necessary
of the Client class.
This is just the main method.
So here we could create our dependency.
It's a new service a
create our client and past the dependency via the constructor.
Right.
So this service right here this is the actual injector.
And here is the client which is going to pass in the injector is going to be past the dependency into
the service into the client constructor.
So this injects the constructor
and then you can actually call a client that do something.
We could also use setter injection instead of constructor injection to pass the depending object to
the dependent one.
So all we will need to do is we will need to go in the Client class and add a set method.
So that service.
Right.
And then you say this that service equals service they're my service I should say
something like that.
Right.
And then when we create the new service and the new client instead of actually passing it into the constructor
right we would end up doing something like client that says service and pass in service object this
way and then we would call do something and that would be an example of injecting via the set method
setter injection.
OK.
And that's basically dependency injection the dependency inversion principle introduced interfaces between
a high level class and its dependencies.
We know that and that decouple the higher level class from it its penalties.
So that you can change the code of lower or lower class without changing the code that uses it.
However is still had a dependency because the instantiation was happening in that lower level class
so the only call that you actually use the dependency directly is the one that instantiate an object
of the specific class that implements the interface.
The dependency injection technique enables you to improve es improve the dependency inversion principle
even further because it provides a way to separate the creation of an object from its usage so you can
replace a dependency by doing this injection technique without changing any of the code.
It also reduces the boilerplate code in the business logic of any class.
So in a nutshell this was the dependency injection.
Again the instantiation of this is outside of the Client class.
Don't worry about it being in the main method right now.
There's no dependencies now for the instantiation that's moved out so service say is instantiated somewhere
else and there's no dependency there for that instantiation.
Thank you.